John McWilliams

No, I don’t think the current system provides adequate accountability around the rentals. Mainly, I think that this is because it relies entirely on complaint-driven enforcement. Hosts are required to register and display a valid number, but nothing exactly verifies if that number is real. Also, the SWE Code of Ethics mentions that engineers should be working in the public’s interest. With this in mind, a system that cross references Airbnb listings with the city’s license database, as an example, would be a much better alternative for residents. This would ultimately ensure that no laws are broken, and that people are treated fairly.

One important factor to discuss is whether or not the data being scraped is actually public, and if it genuinely causes harm to the platform. While this specific project had us work with downloaded HTML files, using other methods that scrape Airbnb go against its terms of service, as an example. This is an important matter, as the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act has been interpreted in such ways that scraping even widely available public pages can be criminally charged. Overall, I think the most important factor is if the scraping is accessing data that anyone could look up and view in a browser, which was true in our case, since all numbers and host information is publicly displayed. 

My first guideline would be that scraping should be limited to data that is fully accessible to the public. All of the data we extracted for this project was publicly available on Airbnb, but if we were to go as far as to collect personal details about hosts or other private information, it would be much harder to justify. My second guideline would be that the scraping should have some benefit to the public in some way, shape or form. This project was modeled after the work of investigators who protect housing availability, and is clearly a lot different from other companies who, for example, might scrape photos for the goal of mass surveillance. If the people whose data you are scraping would consider that they were negatively impacted as a result of it, from an ethical standpoint it should not be happening.
